Trip.com Official Site‎‎ | News

News

Follow Us

Plan Less, Travel More: TripGenie Unveils New Features for Effortless Travel Planning
Jun 6, 2024Trip.com Group

· Trip.com’s AI travel assistant now has enhanced itinerary generation, booking interface, travel alerts and collaborative editing
· 3 more languages will be rolled out in June to support market expansion
Trip.com, a leading global travel service provider, has revealed fresh upgrades to its powerful AI travel assistant TripGenie, which was first launched in the Trip.com app in February 2023.
These exciting updates have been showcased as a sneak preview at Envision 2024, Trip.com Group’s annual Global Partner Summit, and new languages and features are set to roll out in June, giving a boost to travel planning just in time for the summer season.
Built upon TripGenie’s existing technology bedrock powered by large language models, the newly announced version incorporates customised planning features and allows collaborations between multiple users to create and edit itineraries together, making trip-planning and sharing easier and fun for millions of travellers using the platform every day.
Custom Itineraries: Bookings Boosted by AI
With just a simple question, TripGenie gives you a fully planned itinerary, complete with suggested links and collaborative editing.
Whether you enjoy solo travel, nature excursions, or city explorations, TripGenie allows you to customise a trip to suit your style, even accommodating multi-destination plans. Users can specify their destinations, length of stay, and travel preferences – for instance, if they prefer a compact or leisurely trip - and instantly generate a personalised itinerary.
Recent data released by Trip.com indicates users who use TripGenie to recommend destination and itinerary options are 30-40% more likely to return to the platform with twice the order conversion rate. These same users also spend approximately 20 minutes more on the Trip.com app than the average users, demonstrating enhanced engagement and satisfaction. Recurring bookings and increased browsing time have highlighted how the introduction of AI tools has improved user experience and fostered brand loyalty.
Integrated Travel Planning at All Stages
Coordinating trip planning has never been easier. Users on Trip.com have already been chatting with TripGenie for suggestions regarding flights, hotels and itineraries, receiving responses in just a matter of seconds. TripGenie’s newest version takes the AI-aided planning process one step further by allowing users to add booked flights, hotels, and places to visit into their itinerary. They can even invite friends to collaborate and make changes.
Add flights, hotels, travel notes – and share them with the people you’re travelling with – all in one app.
By providing real-time updates on flight status and hotel check-in alerts based on the user's itinerary, TripGenie ensures that travellers are well-informed about upcoming steps. With assistance from the AI-powered travel advisor, Trip.com helps travellers remain confident and relaxed through all stages of their trips.
“Our vision is to make TripGenie the most friendly and thorough travel advisor for our users,” says Amy Wei, Senior Product Director at Trip.com Group. “While Trip.com is renowned for its efficient search and booking services, we strive to go beyond. The newly launched planning features demonstrate our dedication to becoming our users’ most trusted travelling partner. Whether or not services are booked through Trip.com, users will be able to obtain comprehensive itinerary planning and receive effective in-trip alerts and services.”
TripGenie now supports multiple languages including English, Chinese, Cantonese, Japanese, Korean, Thai, French, Spanish, and German. By June 2024, it will also support Italian, Dutch, and Malay, with plans to eventually support all languages featured on Trip.com. The service will continue to expand, introducing capabilities such as real-time voice translation, and enhancing pre-trip and post-trip services, such as easier hotel comparison, enhanced after-sales consultation, and travel experience sharing.
Copyright © 2026 Trip.com Travel Singapore Pte. Ltd. All rights reserved
Site Operator: Trip.com Travel Singapore Pte. Ltd.

