Mindtrip: AI-powered travel, personalized to you.

StaysFlightsEatsExperiencesEventsTrips

Travel
better.

Mindtrip brings the world to you and empowers you to experience it your way.
Start chattingPlay video
Learn more

How it Works

Start chatting with us.
Ask for suggestions for any destination or an entire itinerary. Tell us how you like to travel, what you look for in a new place, and any preferences or pet peeves you have. The more you share, the more personalized your recommendations and plans become.

Browse popular itineraries.
Visit our Inspiration page to get ideas and inspiration from other Mindtrippers. Add their suggestions to a new trip plan and customize it to make it your own.

Get personalized recommendations.
We’ll provide personalized, actionable travel experiences based on your preferences. Check out photos, reviews, maps and more. Favorite the items you like and add them to your trip plan.

Plan with your crew.
Invite friends and family to your trip, start a group chat and build an itinerary that works for everyone — no endless group texts required.

Upload and organize all your travel receipts.
Get started by uploading a receipt or confirmation to Mindtrip or forwarding it to [email protected]. Add new ones as you book and access everything in one place while you travel.

🎉 New at Mindtrip

Events
From concerts and comedy to farmers’ markets and family fun, we’ll show you what’s happening nearby that fits your vibe. Get the scoop, make a plan, even snag tickets.
Try it Now

Google Pins
Import your saved places from Google Maps into Mindtrip and — boom — they become a themed collection you can use to plan.
Try it Now

Collections
See a place you love? Save it to a collection — your favorites sorted by destination, theme or vibe. Invite friends to collaborate and watch that “someday” trip take shape.
Try it Now

Start Anywhere®
Feeling inspired? Mindtrip it. Share your favorite travel content, and we’ll whip up a custom list or itinerary in seconds. You can even start with a photo, screenshot or PDF!
Play videoTry it Now

Mindtrip for iOS
Take us on your next adventure!
Download the free Mindtrip app — your ultimate travel companion.
Download on theApp StoreorScan to download

Everything you need for your next adventure

Photos, maps + reviews
Don’t just read about a place; experience it. With vibrant photos, interactive maps and reviews, you’ll feel like you’re already there.

Tailored recommendations
From the best restaurants in your town to the best beaches around the world, we’ve got you covered. Favorite the recommendations you like and add them to your trip plan.

Customizable
trip plans
In seconds, we’ll create customizable itineraries for anywhere you’d like to go. Include specifics for your requests so we can personalize your plans for you.

Collaboration tools
Plan together in real time — add ideas, comments and likes. Chat as a group within your trip and tag @Mindtrip for suggestions that balance everyone’s vibes.

Browse popular itineraries
Visit our Inspiration page to get ideas and inspiration from other Mindtrippers. Add their suggestions to a new trip plan and customize it to make it your own.

Organize it all in one place.

Hotels
Stay at the best hotels around the world for the best prices.

Coming soon
Car Rental
Unlock deals on any type of wheels and hit the road.

Flights
Get real-time airfares for anywhere you want to jet off to.

Restaurants
Snag a coveted table at the hottest restaurants.

Experiences
Make reservations for your favorite activities, then make memories.

Coming soon
Tours
Get an insider’s perspective on any location or attraction.

Get inspired.
Explore popular destinations and start planning your Mindtrip.

Create.
Inspire.
Earn.
Love traveling and sharing your recommendations? Become a Mindtrip Creator and get paid to do what you love!
Become a Creator

Tag us on your next trip.

#traveldifferently #mindtripping #mindtripai #traveltogether #travelyourway

As featured in …

How AI is transforming the travel industry

My First Trip to Norway, With A.I. as a Guide

Mindtrip wants to become your AI travel agent

Mindtrip’s AI travel assistant aims to be your one-stop shop for trip planning

Mindtrip Raises $7 Million

AI-powered trip planner Mindtrip officially launches

Our
adventure allies

Get iOS app

for Travelers
Stays
Flights
Eats
Experiences
Events
Trips
Inspiration
Help

for Business
Overview
Destinations
Hotels
How It Works
Packages
Book a Demo

for Creators
Become a Creator
Creator Academy

Company
About
Team
Press
Media Kit
Contact
Resources
Mindtrip App
Get iOS app

© 2026 Mindtrip, Inc.Privacy PolicyTerms of Service